Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 58. In this
episode, Scott talks with Matt
Warren about how to make
performance a feature of your
application. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes, and I'm
talking with Matt Warren, who
is a performance expert. How
are you all? Good. Thanks
Scott. Yes. All good. Thanks.
And you just came off
a talk at NDC London
talking about performance as a
feature. How did that go?
Yeah, I think it went
well. I was, as in
the, maybe call it the
graveyard slot a Friday off
name, but nights that seemed
to be decent of people
there. And it's, I think
there's other people who want
to find out about before
once. Like I've been trying
to do myself, so yeah,
I think he's a good
seems to be a popular
topic anyway. And you've made
this kind of like your,
your, your, your favorite thing,
like performance is now what
you do, you focused on
performance and decided that you
would dig into it as
deeply as you could. Yeah.
Certain in terms of what
I blog about and what
I spend my free time
looking into if you like
and things like that. So,
yeah. Yeah. It's definitely my,
my focus, my, my pet
hobby, maybe as a way
of saying it. Yeah. And
on your, on your blog@mattwarren.org,
you have dug into a
number of interesting things, particularly
stack overflow, even though you're
not a, an employee of
stack overflow, you've dug into
how they deal with performance.
And then also the interestingly,
the Roslyn code base, the
code base of the open
source C-sharp compilers. Yeah. Yeah.
So I think, I think
I started with the Roslyn
when I commented by that
the idea of looking into
these public code codebases or
public projects or public companies,
if you like, who are
open about what they're doing,
particularly around performance and in
the case of Roslyn, I'm
thinking that it's going to
be a good example of
how best practices for C
sharp has. It's the C
sharp compiler team writing it
and Microsoft C sharp dates.
And then obviously stack overflow
is a, is a very
high profile. They're very big
on performance because you know,
the top 50 website and
they, their basic thing is
they run on a fairly
high profile, fairly high spec
machines, but they run with
very little CPU usage. So
they really care about performance
and that's their way that
they can get scaling from
my understanding looking in. So
yeah, I thought of, I
thought that I'd take a
look at the code base
in particular, but also some
of the projects they might
release or the Roslyn as
all the discussions on copex
that go into some of
the things they're doing, there's
been a few talks and
stuff by some of the
people in the Roslyn team
have gone into this as
well. So yeah, it's a
lot to take a chance
to see what was around
and what, from the performance
side of things, Doesn't it
seem like, kind of, when
you talk to your, your
friends at other companies that
are working on things, I
know this is the case
with my friends is that
they almost feel like they're
taking performance as an afterthought
and when it becomes a
problem, then it's a big,
let's all freak out and
try to make the system
performance. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
I think that there's always
this thing, I we'll, we'll,
we'll fix a performance before
the site goes live, but
we'll do it, you know,
one of the sprints, you
know, at the end and
we kind of know what
happens to those sprints at
the end, they get there's
all the other stuff that,
that didn't quite get done
in the previous ones. So,
yeah, I think there's definitely
that you can be a,
if not an afterthought, at
least maybe not the priority.
And yeah, I think we'd
all prefer to be able
to fix a performance feature
before our customers told us
about it. That's probably the
other part of it is,
you know, if the first
time we find we've got
performance issues is when the
site goes down, that's not
a great time to be
fixing performance or trying to
recreate performance or things like
that. So it's yeah, the,
the, the idea behind the
performance is a feature is,
is the kind of tagline
of given certain it's something
I shamelessly borrowed from Jeff
Atwood's. He came up with
it in terms of stack
overflow. But the idea is
that we give it the
same priorities that we might
give security in our website,
or we might give functional
features or things like that.
And then trying to see
what that looks like at
places at that's done, which
I believe stack overflow is
one. And then the Roslyn
K base is another. Yeah,
it's always so surprising to
me how, how tolerant big
enterprises and the kind of
the internal projects will people
will be like, they will
be tolerant of five and
10, second long, you know,
page loads. And I just
can't imagine that that is
okay. It's almost like the
old adage of, you know,
how do you boil a
frog and you boil a
frog slowly. So the clock
doesn't actually know it's being
boiled and then bring a
new employee in and say,
Hey, look at the performance
in this site, it's sucks.
They're going to be like,
this water is hot and
jump right out. Like, why
would you let it get
this bad? Well, I don't
know. The water kind of
got hot slowly. Yeah, well,
yeah. I mean, cause there's,
there's, there's quite a famous
stat about Google in terms
of they shave, you know,
they artificially made their web
pages go some bit slower
and I lost laser customers.
And then like say the
other extreme is, tends to
be the internal apps or
line of business apps, or,
you know, where you say,
like you say, they might
get slower and slower over
time. But even though, as
you could probably argue, you
know, if the, if the
internal app is being used
by signing your company, and
they're wasting 10 minutes a
day, half an hour a
week, you know, that soon
adds up over a year,
what could they be doing
with that time? So whilst
they've got, in some ways
they've got no choice, they
can't leave you as a
customer because it's an internal
app. I still think even
in there, you have to
always justify the time to
fix it versus the time
it saves. But I think
there's even an argument sometimes
to not get into the
situation you're talking about, where
these apps just get slower
and slower over time. And
then before you know, it,
someone's spending half an hour
a day to do something
that should take five minutes.
Yeah. If you, if you
have the problem that your
site is too fast and
you have to slow it
down artificially, that's a pretty
good problem to have. I
know that Troy hunt famously
did that on his, have
I been poned website, he
added a little sleep because
it was too fast because
you know, you have to
have the sense of work
being done. Work does 10
milliseconds. Yeah. I think people
have this expectation that if
this happens instantly, it's not
really done it. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I think from my
own son to that test
with Google, I did like
an AB testing type thing.
And they saw, you know,
we don't all operate at
a Google scale of things,
but, you know, there's, there's
probably some scale for, for
all of us where people
are going to get annoyed
or leave our site or
refuse to buy our product
again, all those sorts of
things and where that comes.
You know, I'm not saying
we would have to shave
half a second off our
page load times that's maybe
an extreme, but there's, there's
some level of it. And
maybe, yeah. Not, not continuously
letting things like you say,
boiling the frog over and
over until it's so bad.
It's unusable, Google. Actually, interestingly
just last week is testing
a new feature on their
Android devices where the check
this out you'll, you'll, you'll
want to interested in what
you think about this, their
search results contain hints to
what the most heavy thing,
the most heavy resource is
on that particular page. You're
about to go to so
that when you click on
a result on mobile, they
will start, prefetching like a
large CSS file or a
bait JavaScript file in anticipation
of you heading over to
that page. And apparently they're
saying it's shaved a hundred
milliseconds off the average search
result within that browser. Oh,
nice. Nice. Yeah, because I
know that I know before
they've done certainly in Chrome
anyway, they do pre-loading of
links. I think you might
go see to do that
sort of idea and it's
yeah. I think it's the
way things are going. Isn't
it, everyone, everyone, the bar's
being raised constantly, isn't it
in Gmail or whoever came
along and showed what a
fast JavaScript application looked like.
And now the old style
applications that people were happy
with, I don't know, 10
years ago, or whenever it
was people aren't happy with
anymore. Yeah. Like you say,
these things are going up
and up and pulling out
all the tricks, I guess
once you've done, you know,
you've minified your page and
your GS apps and all
that sort of stuff, you
have to look at these
things like prefetching. But yeah,
it sounds a nice, nice
technique all, and let's, let's
do Into this from a
low, much lower level. The
goal of course, is to
make things feel fast for
the user, but taking performance
seriously is kind of the
most important thing. I noticed
that on your analysis of
the Roslyn code base, which
is a really big code
base, we're talking about 2 million
plus lines of code. It
seemed like they were measuring
performance against a number of
scenarios. Yeah. They had, they
had a couple of things.
So, so one thing they
do is like you say,
they look at small, medium
and large solutions. I mean,
my understanding again, from looking
on the outside in is
that the Roslyn is a
compiler. Can't be slower than
the previous competitors because us,
as you know, that's using
visual studio, not, we're not
going to like that. And
also Roslyn has a, a
slightly unique thing and it's
doing something on every key
press as the kind of
big full build, but there's
also the stuff it does
to power IntelliSense and all
that sort of stuff going
on. So there's, there's quite
tight things as, as, and
from what I understand is
that they basically categorized it.
So this is something that
happens on a key press.
So we have one level
of performance. This is something
that happens in line with
a build. So we have
another type of thing, you
know, so there's that kind
of categorization. And then they
took that and did that
as a continuous build. So
every time they built, they
run all this stuff and
see that if they are
very least daily, I think
in possibly even more than
that in the same way
that we run unit tests
regularly to see if the
vary a bit of code
of just tucked in as,
as broken something, the same
idea that we run performance
tests and say that we
know straight away that some
bit of code that might
be fixing something has also
harmed the performance and they
have that idea and they
look at a lapsed time,
average time percentile, that sort
of things like digging quite
deeply. And then the making
sure that they cover at
the very least the hot
path and these things that
happen on every key press.
But I'm sure they've got
in the background, this idea
of, well, what does this
performance look like? If someone
opens up a solution with
a thousand CS project files
in it, and then what's
going to happen then, And
they did that with, you
know, with, for lack of
a better word, manage your
sponsorship, right? This isn't a
hobby, this isn't someone doing
this in their spare time.
Like this is important. It's
baked into the team that,
that these performance numbers matter.
Yeah. That's interesting. There's a
little pit. So I picked
up from, from, from some
of the stuff on discussions,
my understanding is that there's
a, at least one engineer
or maybe others who deal
with performance. And so they
would, might take a look
at the basis cause you
don't want to necessarily prioritize
performance in everything you do,
because sometimes there's a whole
thing about premiere chair optimization
and you don't want to
optimize stuff for the sake
of it, or you don't
want to optimize something that
the, the, the time it
takes to optimize is not
worth the payback you get
from the faster code. So
from my understanding, the sounds
come in at some point
in the, in a development,
obviously they're smart dads and
they've had this tried to
write the best code they
can while they're doing it
going through. But then someone
stepped in and looked at
the particular hot pass, profile
it and tried to understand
what no, this part is
going slowly. What can we
do here? Or this part
is not performing as quickly
as we need it to,
we can take a look
here. So yeah, like you
say, it's, I think there's
something structured. It's not a,
it's not an accident. I
think that's, that's part of
it as well. You, you,
you have to take some
steps to do this stuff.
You can't like, you can't
necessarily rely on just finding
fluence issues in development by
accident because you don't test
in the same way. You
don't have the same setup
as production. So you there's
some possibly some deliberate steps
you have to take to
say, look, this is our
common part of our page,
or this is a common
part of our product. Let's
see what this is, how
this behaves, when we have
10,000 users or we run
it 20 times a second
or whatever the scenario might
be, as opposed to just
running it once and see,
see how it works out.
Yeah. I think that one
of the things that beginners
fall into is this idea
of, of micro benchmarks, right?
You know, they think performance
is a unit test that
they put it a little
timer around and they may
be shove a thousand of
something into a, into a
bundle or a list of
some kind and do some
operation. They go, yeah, that's
performance. But that may not
be reflective of how the
product is ultimately used. And
in the Rosalind examples you
gave, those are all real
world things like this is
when a normal person types
and IntelliSense pops up and
a normal person types at
this speed. This is reflective
of an end to end
performance test. Yeah. Yeah. I
definitely the idea that you,
you first look at something
end to end, and then
yeah, you may, you may
end up writing a, some
micro benchmark at the end
because you've identified one bit
of code that, you know,
should always perform under one
millisecond or which should always
perform. It should never slow
down build to build that
sort of thing. But yeah,
you're right. You should never
start in just micro benchmarks
because it's too easy to
get into details. That bit
of code might be called
once in the entire runtime
of your application. So anything
you do there is not
gonna make the difference. Whereas
there's not be another bit
of code that is called
a thousand times a second
or a thousand times a
minute, or whatever that you
don't, you haven't looked into.
So I think there is
a place for micro benchmarks.
If you can start with
the higher level stuff and
then drill down, if you
determined that there's one bit
of code that needs to
always be very quick, that
is justified. But yeah, as
you say, it's, and, and
there's a, there's this tricky
stuff with, you know, benchmarks
as you go on stack
overflow the site and you'll
see the ways people can
get benchmarks wrong and you
can measure things incorrectly. You
can not take account of
the.net jitter that there's stuff
that needs to consider. Once
you get into level of
micro benchmarks, to be sure
that you really are measuring
the, the application, the sorry,
the bit of code you
think you're measuring, you need
to run stuff. Like you
mentioned several times to get
an accurate representation of how
long it really and things
like that. So he has
a bit of an art
to doing it. And it's,
I think it's saying that
you can't get wrong if
you're not careful, How important
do you think it is
for performance metrics to be
kind of up front and
center? Sometimes they're buried off
in some operations dashboard or
even worse in someone's text
file, somewhere in a log
that no one looks at.
Yeah. I mean, it goes
back to what you're talking
about. Mini guide, the idea
that you kind of really
liked to know about your
performance issues before your customers
are telling you about it,
or before the CEO who
runs the site and behaves
badly. So the yeah. Where
wherever, whatever you can do
to get them, whether that's
alerts. I mean, one of
the problems with alerts you
have to find is that
there's so many of them
having more alerts isn't necessarily
a good thing sometimes. Cause
people just learn to ignore
them. So meaningful alerts have
them in a place that
you can find them easily.
Like you say, don't have
to dig into them. I
really like the example from
stack overflow, they, they released
a tool called mini profiler
and it has other ones
available, like glimpse glimpse, probably
maybe more fully featured, but
many profiles. It was one
of the early ones maybe
that sits in the corner
of your webpage, or it
can work in other scenarios,
but it was mostly tailored
for that and gives you
a drill down of where
the times taken to render
that page, database time a
time. And you control that
time in your front end
and you're rendering your view,
these sorts of things and
having that. Yeah, I think
that's something that's very valuable
having that in development. So
your dad's can get an
idea of, you know, if,
if you're hitting a development
page five times a day
and you see suddenly something
go, go a lot slower,
you're going to investigate it
then as opposed to, to
wait till later. But yeah.
So you think it's important
to put those things like,
like if you're a developer,
not in production or even
if you're maybe in production,
but you're logged in with
some magic powers as a
developer, you should see perf
like right there. Yeah. I
think apparently there's, I think
there's been times where they
found per fishes in stack
overflow because that dad saw
the, yeah, they don't, they
don't expose it to users
the site, but whoever the
dads and others get to
see it and they've, you
know, someone's sitting in and
suddenly a page takes 400
milliseconds when they expect their
page to take less than
a hundred and you know,
that's enough. And I'm sure
they have metrics that would
flag that up as well.
But having that, yeah. If,
if nothing else I think
having that sort of the
first step is, is a
great way to go to
stops the thing of like,
Oh, I didn't realize the
page was behaving slowly. It
kind of makes it a
bit harder for that in
some way. Cause they, you
know, they've got no excuse,
but it does at any,
anytime I've been working on
a site or this or
some code and we've turned
that on we've we've always
been slightly surprised about what
we've found and we've gone
away to fix something straight
away. If nothing else it'll
tell you, if you're hammering
the database with lots of
calls and that's, that's normally
a bad sign of performance.
If you select 10 plus
ones, it will flag things
up like that for you.
But it's always hard to
figure out where time is
being taken. So having something
that tells you that as
soon as you can see
that is, is definitely a
benefit. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a
big fan Of, of glimpse.
And before that mini profiler,
I think glimpse does most
of what many profiler does
now. Yeah. The idea that
in, you know, in the
browser on the page, see
that something went wrong and
I would even go so
far as to, as to
like, if I were in
development, you know, change the
background, color of the page,
make it red. If it,
you know, if it didn't
come back in a certain
number of seconds, really put
it up front. If, if,
if things are, are not
performance in a deeply unperformed
way, everyone should know. Yeah.
That's a nice idea actually.
Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Yeah.
You want something, whether it's
dashboards or something. Yeah. Cause,
cause if generally you nice
stuff starts performing badly. There's
a very high chance that
your customers are going to
see that it's unlikely that
you're only seeing that as
a Def looking at the
site as opposed to customers.
So yeah. You want to
know as soon as possible.
I think it's funny that
people are really willing to
put in, you know, lights
and traffic lights, traffic, robots,
to tell you whether or
not the build is failing,
but you don't see that
as much if performances is
not up to snuff. Yeah.
It's it's yeah. I, I,
when I, when I was
looking around at this particular
thing, now there's a few,
there's a few places I
found it, but it's, there's
not so many, I don't
think it's whether it's a
tooling thing or a thing.
I mean like this whole
parameter optimization, you don't want
to get down to the
point where everything, you know,
if any slight bit of
your code runs slower, you,
you completely fail it. But
yeah, I think there's a
sort of middle ground and
one library. I did see
it in his, his no
to time from John skeet,
his library way, it's, it's
kind of a system level
libraries in effect. Writing are
a replacement for date, time
and date, time offset and
all the international international relations
and stuff that goes on
with, with dates and times
and say that you are
using that library and you're
not expecting that library to
be slow in any way.
So I think that's a
definite place where there's no
real premature optimization because it's
something you want to be
quick. So he has on
every build, he has performance
tests that run them all
say this bit, this particular
performance test is running slower
than last built. Is this
something you wanna, you want
to sort out and then
yeah, but I think that's
a nice site. They probably
all, I think that, I
think in the Roslyn any
way, I would imagine that
they, if, if not breaks
the build, it certainly flex
it up. If things get
slower build to build. Cause
you know, if they've gone
to the effort of putting
all this in places, it
would be strange to not
be acting on it. Well,
that brings up another interesting
point. There's the, there's the
performance as it is now,
but then there's that historical
performance, right? I mean, it's
one thing to say this
page is red or whatever,
because it's less than two
seconds or it's more than
two seconds in the time
it took to load, but
that doesn't put anything in
context. There's no graph there
to express that, you know
what we did double performance
from before, it's still not
correct, but we are moving
in a certain direction. So
what do we do to
collect those, those statistics and
look at performance over time?
Yeah. That's something I've been
wondering. It was how I
was trying to look around
and see what's around. I
mean, I think a lot
of tools or tools that
will run on builds and
do unit tests and show
graphs of their past and
failures. I think a lot
of those have an option
for you to output some
other metric. So if, if
the tool offers that, then
that's one way I think
is so they generate automatically
pick up the number of
parts and files of tasks
and you can see those
graphs. But from my understanding,
some of those tools offer
a way to say, you
know, all right, we'll have
one particular bit of code
that runs on every build
and it outputs a metric
that represents the time that
we care about. And then
we can graph that. Other
than that, it may be
a case of pushing those
graphs into some other third
party tool that just does
graphs in general, there's online
tools or graphite or things
like that, that run that
can just basically have rest
end points and you can
push data in. So that
might be an option. So
yeah, I think it's, I
think it's something that when
I seen it, they seem
to be hand-rolled solutions from
the ones I've seen so
far. So I don't know
if it's a, not a
solved problem or, or I'm
just missing the ones. Maybe
it could be that I'm
just missing the ones that
do for you. Well, certainly
there's tools like, like stack
Overflow's ops server. That is
absolutely amazing piece of work
that the complete dashboard, they
use it for CQL performance
for Reddis for their elastic
search. And they can look
at things like CPU utilization
in L you know, live
over time, which, and it's
pretty extraordinary and it's all
open source. So certainly we
could build on top of
things like that. Yeah, yeah,
yeah, no, sorry. I said,
yeah, no, I'd seen that
pretty, that's a nice tool
actually. Yeah. Yeah. And, and
like the other stuff they
do, it's nice that they,
they make it freely available
for, for like, from my
understanding that the tools, they
couldn't either find tools that
were tailored to their need
or, you know, I don't,
I don't think they write
tools themselves on a whim,
you know, that they haven't
got the time to just
be always doing their own
tools. You know, I trusted,
they had a good reason
for writing that cause the
commercially available ones weren't doing
what they're doing, but yeah.
It's nice that they spun
that out and made that
available. Yeah. Yeah. And, and
I think that, that, that
is a good thing in
terms of this single dashboard,
one place where you can
get this stuff and yes,
you might drill down further,
but not having to look
at some logs that are
on one machine and correlate
those with something else that's
going on another machine. And
then, you know, and then
hope the machine hasn't recycled
in the cloud and you've
lost those logs over. So
having something central that deliberately
collects this stuff in a
way that not on your
alert sheet, but gives you
a way of going back
to look over, look over
time or, or, yeah, it's
a spot. These issues Important
that that not be a
toy or someone's spare time
project. Like you need an,
a manager or a boss
to, to accept that this
is important. This is a
thing that someone really needs
to work on. I mean,
I don't think ops server
was w I hope not.
And we have to ask
the stack overflow folks. I
certainly hope that wasn't written,
you know, in someone's on
someone's weekend. Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Now you're yeah. Going back
to the Rodney thing, making
a deliberate thing. Yeah, yeah.
From all my, from the
outside, looking at stack overflow,
they, they do this stuff
cause they're serious about it.
They, they, they blog about
the times when they weren't
as fast as they wanted
to be. They, they, they
write tools. Yeah. I think
it's a, it's a, it's
a culture there's maybe a
better way of describing it
in terms of, we deeply
care about performance, you know,
not, not that they're sacrificing
other things security or whatever
that's going on as well,
but they, they care about
performance because in their world,
in terms of page render
times and stuff like that,
that matters for Google results
or that matters for a
good experience for the thousands
of deaths or using the
sites or it matters. Cause
they can run on the
hardware they have and not
have to, you know, they
can cope with burst loads
and things like that, I
think is a combination of
those things. What about benchmarking?
You've said that there's an
art to benchmarking. I think
people sit down and they
start measuring things and then
they realized that they weren't
really measuring at all what
they thought they were. Yeah.
So there was there's that
there's a lot of it
comes down to when you
get to a certain level
there's categories. So mainly benchmarks,
micro benchmarks. So some of
these things apply to, once
you get down to a
low level, you really have
to worry about, or one
of the main things is
the dotnet jitters. So they'll
be doing a whole tutorial
on that. Basically we, we
write C-sharp code or vb.net
or whatever we write that
gets turned into IO and
then compile it into ion.
And then it runs on
the jitter kicks in and
turns that into code that
runs on the machine and
there's other scenarios. But generally
that's the main way that
happens. Budgets are, can basically
optimize in any way. It
sees fit that doesn't change
the behavior of your program.
And often when you're writing
a micro benchmark, you're calling
a bit of code in
a loop and the jitter
might just say, Hey, you're
not using the value. You're
just coding this code. You're
not doing anything with the
value at returns or you're
not even returning a value.
So one of the, one
of the scenarios I've found
that you have to be
careful is that when you
get down to a certain
level, if you're benchmarking things
at quite a low level,
there's a chance at digital,
we'll just optimize it out.
And on the other side
of that is you have
to make sure that you
are running in release mode.
You're not running inside of
the bugger. You know, when
visual studio, when you run
inside of deBaca, it doesn't
optimize the code in the
same way. As when you
launched the executable outside of
visual studio. For instance, there's
a few things that you
have to worry about because
the debug mode is useful
for debugging, but it's slower
by definition because it puts
in things to help make
the debugging experience. Nice. And
another one is you want
to try and isolate as
much as you can, that
garbage collection, if you're running
something in the loop for
a long period of time,
there may be a point
where the garbage collection kicks
in and a lot of
benchmarks will in effect called
GC collect the thing we
never told to call for
real in production, but in
a benchmark, that's one thing
we're talking about.net. Anyway, we
want to make sure that
we do what we can
to get the garbage collection
out of the way, because
it will, it will artificially
change the speed of your
benchmark ineffective. If the garbage
collection kicks in, in the
middle, How often do you
think people are overthinking these
things? They're, they're, you know,
they're, they're doing pretty basic
work. They're going to the
database, they're pulling stuff back,
spinning through collections, and then
suddenly they're off tweaking dotnet
GC settings because they convinced
that they are a unique
snowflake. Yeah, no, there, there,
there definitely is that when
I, when I do a
talk and I say some
of these things I've seen
in Rosner, other places, I
put a big warning saying,
please do not go back
and change your code to
match any of these scenarios.
You have to be measuring
this stuff first to work
out, visiting valid is quite
nice as engineers, we call
it. You know, maybe if
you like to look at
low level stuff or whatever,
it's quite nice to go
in and say, Oh, I
tweaked the GC or I
made something that will run
one millisecond faster, over a
thousand ones or whatever, but,
you know, yeah. We need
to kind of see the,
the wood for the trees,
if you're lucky. That's the
analogy that, that, yeah, we're
not just doing this for
the, for the sake of
it. There is, there is
some times when it's valid,
whether it's say something like
no to time where you're
a system level library or
it's stack overflow where you're
running at that performance level,
or even a regular app,
if you identify what your
hot path is and you
know, if it's running 20
times a second, then you
know, shading a millisecond off
can help there. So there
is, there are scenarios where
it's valid, but yeah, it's
definitely a very easy trap
to fall into say, you
know, I've seen this nice
trick. I'm going to rewrite
all my code. I mean,
one of the things that
in Roslyn and hot pass
is they disallow link. They
say, we're not going to
use link. Cause that's when
you run link the, the
query language or the, you
know, the nice functional way
of doing stuff in.net. It's
fantastic. But behind the scenes
to give you that nice
experience as a developer, it
does a bit of extra
work than the old for
each loop way in certain
scenarios. So they, they there's
been times where they rewrote
some link queries into the
old style queries to just
minimize the extra work that
was going on that would
eventually turn into extra work
for the garbage collector. And
they identified that as a
hot path, they identified that
there was extra work being
done there and they identified
that getting rid of link
in that scenario was a
good thing to do, but
definitely don't think getting rid
of link as a common
thing is, is, you know,
link is fantastic. That writes
more readable code. People can
understand it. Yeah. So yeah,
there's definitely stuff that's this
is a good, good example
for, if you care about
forcing this bit of Cobra,
don't do this elsewhere in
the code base because more
often than not performance Coda
is good from Ford's point
of view is less readable
code. Cause it's, it's not
the code song would have
written the first time around.
So there's this one term,
I think you might be
saying it quickly and not
everyone who listens will have
heard that the term you're
saying is, is hot pack,
Hot paths. Yes. Sorry. It
says the code execution has
that the compiler we're kind
of, most of the execution
time is spent. It's kind
of like the 80 20
rule, right? 20% of the
code is being used 80%
of the time. Yeah, exactly.
That thing you, you know,
it's different. So on, on,
on a website, it may
be the, the bit that
does the validation of the
user on every request that's
shared across every request on
every page on the site
or on, on Rosalind, it's
the bit that's done on
every, every time we hit
a key in visual studio
and Rosalind does something in
the background to reprocess that
that would be considered Rosalind
hot path. So that, that
varies across applications. I've previously
worked in applications that run
in factories and the constantly
taking images of things going
under, along a conveyor belt.
And so our hot path
is we have to make
sure where we're processing the
image before the next image
comes along. We've got a
fairly constraints thing. So it
varies, you know, whatever your
application might be is the
bit that's done more often
than not, like you say,
the 80, the 80 20
rule. And certainly in Roslyn,
I think there's more of
a general term it's referred
to as a hot path.
And this is, this is
a more, this is useful
for more than just performance
also for testing and things
like test coverage. People often
talk about how I want
to get a hundred percent
test coverage, but you know,
that doesn't necessarily mean that
the piece that you're deciding
to do test coverage of
is, is even happening very
often. Really I'd rather have
a hundred percent test coverage
on the 20% of the
code that everyone is in
all the time. Yeah. Yeah.
That's definitely true as well,
actually. Yeah. Yeah. You're right.
Yeah. I mean, if, if,
if in an ideal world,
like you say, you know,
if we could get a
hundred percent test coverage, maybe
that's what or something, although
even that sometimes people argue
about whether that's something worth
aiming for, but yeah. If
you're constrained with time. Yeah.
Certainly looking at the bits
that every user's using versus
the bit of the site
that gets used once a
week or something. Yeah. I
mean, it's, there's always priorities
in there. It could be
often comes down to business
or something like that, or
whatever's driving where the developers
spend their time, but yeah.
Yeah. We can sometimes concentrate
our time on the wrong
parts. Maybe the parts that
are more interesting to us,
but, but not, not what
our users use. Well, you
have a wealth of great
information@mattwarren.org underneath the recent pages.
You go into the Dunnet
garbage collector, the Roslyn code
base, Raven DB. Reddis the
art of benchmarking. And I
really appreciate you taking the
time to chat with me
today. No problem. Thank you
very much, Scott. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.